~~~~START OF IMPROV TRANSCRIPT 1~~~~~

Hi, I’m Penn of Orenco Tsumanmi, this is Keala, Izabel, Carmen, Prithu, Jackson and Vikram.

The problem that we’re trying to solve is providing electricity to places in the world where access is limited. For example in places like Texas or Puerto Rico where they’ve had storms there is a sever shortage of power.

How it works is there is a tank and it goes through, um.

There is a reservoir at the top and during the day a solar powered pump pumps water up the pipe. Then at night

it goes through the pump electrical powered


Currently, people are using solutions that are inefficient or toxic.

Lead Acid Batteries are not eco friendly.

So we bring to you the miniaturized hydroelectric plant.

The world is better with our solution because it is eco friendly.

It also uses water and sunlight, two renewable resources that will not generate any CO2 when it’s running.

You can use dirty water with the pump and it [the water] doesn’t need any cleaning.

And it’s easily maintainable and you can add a battery for longer term power storage.

The pieces are replaceable.

And, the parts are easy to find in any nearby hardware store.

We considered using a small pump but that didn’t work (from our tests) so we’ll need to use a larger pump because the small pump didn’t run an LED pipe.

These devices [can be scaled to support] a single household or a larger community.

Instead of using a large one you could use many different pumps and connect them [as a single source] to one [load]/thing.

You can even use this to power your neighbors if they are without the solution.

You can also share the solution.

Spread the word, the new pump is out now.

~~~~START OF IMPROV TRANSCRIPT 2~~~~~

Hi, we’re Orenco Tsunami. I’m Penn and this is Vikram, Prithu, Izabel, Carmen, Keala, and Jackson.

We thought of hydroelectric dams and then we thought of the people who don’t have access to electricity to we decided to make a portable system that would help people in other places have electricity.

Some of the current problems of other solutions that people have focus on the lead acid battery in that it’s not eco friendly, it’s not child friendly, and it’s not portable.

People who need electricity is Florida, Texas, and Puerto Rico.

And parts of the middle east. Don’t forget Africa.

Our solution aims to fix all of those problems. We happily present to you the miniaturized hydroelectric plant.

We’re using solar power for our pumps to pump the water to a stoarage tank.

You can use recycled water. It doesn’t have to have pure water so it’s good in that way too.

Our pump is gravity fed.

To activate the solar panel you’ll need the sun. The sun will provide the energy to power your devices and stuff.

And it will help places without electricity. And we should call it the super pump.

Our solution is portable, non-toxic, eco friendly, lightweight, [easily maintainable], and you can operate it with lots of other installations such as a battery.

We can also use rain barrels (inaudible) to collect water as a constant source of power.

We choose the rain barrels because they are found in a lot of places so they’re easy to get.

The pump has a solar panel to pump the water up to the storage tank in the daytime and at night gravity fed pumps can generate the stored power.

~~~~START OF IMPROV TRANSCRIPT 3~~~~~

Hello we’re Orenco Tsunami and these are my teammates Jackson, Izabel, Penn, Prithu, Carmen, and Vikram (speaker was Keala)

The basic problem that we’re trying to solve is basically the world without electricity.

Some locations that are included are Texas (due to the hurricane), Florida (also due to a hurricane), and Puerto Rico. These three locations along with Africa and the Middle East are currently having major deficiencies of their power.

Some current solutions are led acid batteries and solar panels.

At the top there is a tank and the water goes through

The solution is using a solar panel to provide them with energy.

The solution will use a solar panel to pump the water in the daytime and at night (water does through the gravity fed pump).

The solution is a, eco friendly, b, child friendly, and c, easily maintainable.

Because our system does away with the lead acid battery which pollutes the environment it is eco friendly.

The sun generates the solar pane.

The solar power powers the pump to push water to the storage tank and at night flows back through the pump which generates electricity instead of using it.

This system is very scalable so that you can replace pumps with bigger pumps and bigger pipes too.

It is very maintainable and won’t harm your child like a lead acid battery.

You can use this to power yourself, power your neighbors or even power your entire community.

There are many good things about this solution.

You can either use one pump to share power or multiple pumps to generate something big.

And that’s our solution to fix the world as it is today.

~~~~START OF IMPROV TRANSCRIPT 4~~~~~

Hello, I am Vikram and these are my friends Jackson, Prithu, Keala, Izabel, Carmen, and Penn.

And we are the Orenco Tsunami.

We were thinking about Hydroelectric dams and the lack of electricity in the world.

In large parts of the world there are people who need it and (she lists places we stated many times before)

Our solution is a pump that uses water to generate electricity.

It generates power

The current solution has many flaws.

Sometimes a lead acid battery...

Another flaw with lead acid batteries is that they are toxic and not eco-friendly.

Solar panel are helpful to provide people with energy.

The lead acid battery is not very portable.

~~~~START OF IMPROV TRANSCRIPT 5~~~~~

The problem in the world is that we do not have electrify in several places like parts of South America, parts of Africa, parts of the Middle East, and other parts of the world.

Our solution is to make a hydro electric pump.

Some of the other solutions that people have had are solar panel but the solar panels are really big and not easily portable.

And sometimes solar panels are so big {inaudible} on your house.

Our solution has a pump a hose and a reservoir

another flaw of the solar panel is that it doesn’t work at night.
Our solution will have a solar panel for the day and then stored energy will generate electricity at night.

Stored energy comes from solar panels.

You don’t have to use fresh water for our system, you can use water that you collect after washing your hands.

Our systems is very scalable so you can switch out parts easily. There are many good parts of our solutions.

It is eco friendly and maintainable.... (descends into fits of uncontrollable laughter.)
